# tb_01 - simple example

## Structure of the tb component

### Main signals

* test_id - test number selection, set from the command line
* ​​test_name - test names
* cnt_wr, cnt_rd, cnt_ok, cnt_error - test event counters
* in_tdata, in_tvalid, in_treadi - AXI Stream bus at the component input
* out_tdata, out_tvalid, out_ready - AXI Stream bus at the component output
* q_data - reference data queue
* cv_all - code coverage percentage

### Task list

* test_finish - output test result, called at the end of the test or by timeout
* set_outready_cnt - out_tready signal control
* gen_out_tready - out_tready sequence generation
* write_data - write one word
* write_seq - write a sequence of words

### Initial processes list

* check_timeout - generate timout signal
* main_process - main test execution process
* generate_test_sequence - generation of test actions

### Always@(posedge clk) list

* Monitor - receive data and compare with the standard from the q_data queue
* out_tready - generate a signal by the counter

## Description

The test gets the test_id value from the command line using the $value$plusargs() function. Depending on the test_id value, one of two sequences is executed in the generate_test_sequence process. Task write_data() transfers a data word to the in_tdata bus, and the same word is written to the q_data queue.
The monitor receives data on the out_tdata bus and compares the word with the value from the q_data queue. If there is a match, the cnt_ok counter is increased; if there is a mismatch, the cnt_error counter is increased. After the sequence is completed, the test_finish task is called, which displays the execution result. The result is displayed in the console and in the result.txt file; If the test sequence is not completed, a timeout is triggered, test_timeout=1 is generated, and the test execution is terminated.

Using the bind command, the bind_user_axis component is connected to the user_axis component being tested. It gets access to all signals of the user_axis component. Inside bind_user_axis, a covergroup cvr is created that collects statistics on signals.


## Disadvantages of the tb component

All the necessary processes for testing are collected inside one tb component:
* test selection
* report generation
* test sequence generation
* transaction queue
* result checking

Moving these processes to other files is very difficult, since other files will not have access to the signals being tested.

This problem can be solved using packages and virtual interfaces. More details about virtual interfaces can be found in the tb_02 example